Brother Thomas Kalameras, who serves at the United States branch together with his wife,
has spent close to four decades supporting various aspects of the organization's construction projects.
What has that experienced taught him that the work is not run by us?
Throughout history, men have built many beautiful and impressive buildings.
These structures have usually brought glory to men, not to God,
but those men are long gone, and even many of the structures no longer exist.
How true is the Scripture in Psalm 1271, unless Jehovah builds the house,
it is in vain that its builders work hard on it.
In our time too, Jehovah is using his people to build.
We're working hard to build spirituality on interested ones,
and also we build structures in order to help individuals to learn about Jehovah and serve him.
In this type of construction, both spiritually and physical construction,
I've been involved for most of my life.
I was born in Greece, our family came into contact with the truth in the early 60s.
I was baptized when I was in high school.
I left school to get some practical training and architecture,
but I made pioneering my career.
In 1973, I met my dear wife, Margaret,
and together we enjoy many assignments.
We pioneered special pioneering. We went to Gilead.
We were invited to Bethel in 1979 to work in the engineering department.
We worked on designing new branches, assembly halls,
kingdom halls, renovation of existing branches, and remote translation offices.
Before we came to Bethel, we had seen how Jehovah provided for us individually.
But now we had the opportunity to see how Jehovah provided for the needs of his organization globally.
By the year 2000, we became apparent that the present facility of the Britain branch was not meeting their needs.
So, a site was located 50 miles north of London to relocate the branch there.
However, the governing body decided to cancel the project.
So, in 2008, the governing body wrote that now is a time to Jehovah's time
to find a property closer to London.
So, a project was formed and a few years went by and a number of properties were searched and one was located closer to London.
If something we planned falls through, it could mean that Jehovah had something else or better in mind to meet the needs of his organization.
Well, working in the Haiti branch, we learned a lesson not to compromise on safety.
The Brooklyn Engineering Department did the drawings for the branch and a local contractor was hired to build the structural work.
Now, the contractor, when he reviewed the drawings, told the branch committee that, really, this is over-design.
You're wasting a lot of money by putting all that still in the building.
So, we wrote back and said, no, the drawings are okay.
The branch is designed according to the seismic zone that is in and the contractor to go ahead with the plants as drawn.
In 2010, when the earthquake came into Haiti, hundreds of thousands of people died because of inferior materials and methods of construction.
However, the branch did not suffer any damage and many people went there to find refuge.
We're so glad that Jehovah did not allow us to be swayed in this case.
Jehovah continues to direct a great physical building work and a spiritual work.
Jehovah trains his people how to work together for the work just ahead of us, the beautification of this earth to a paradise.
It is so important that we trust in Jehovah and not to lean upon our own understanding.
A life of building with Jehovah has shown me the wisdom of Psalm 1271.
If we keep building our lives with Jehovah, our building work will never be in vain.